My exposure to Latin has given me a different perspective on languages, especially English. It has shown me that the Latin language suits mostly male and female genders and doesn’t have much to support the LGBTQ+ community. I also found that most nouns were described as either male or female or neuter specifically. The English language is very diverse compared to the Latin language. Latin has made me more aware of this difference.

My experience with Latin this semester was filled with ups and downs. In the very beginning, when we were working with nouns, everything was making sense and I understood how to locate and figure out what case a noun was. I struggled a little with translating from English to Latin because I didn’t fully understand the differences each of the cases had. I never realized how many forms a noun could take until taking Latin. As we continued on, I begin to have a deeper understanding of nouns and their cases. The section I struggled the most with was verbs. I understood finding the different conjugations and figuring out if the noun was passive or active but again struggled with translating from English to Latin. I also understood how to figure out if a verb was singular or plural. I never realised how many different types of forms a verb could take. Starting with mood, there were three different types of moods! I understood indicative (telling a fact) and didn’t really understand the meanings of subjunctive or infinitive. Then there were the tenses. I somewhat understand four of the tenses: Present, Perfect, Pluperfect and Imperfect. We were only working in third person so that made it easier to figure out what ending I needed for each verb.  I struggled with understanding how to make a verb (in English) into a passive verb (in Latin) and change the sentence to support it. I still don’t fully understand verbs but I’m hoping to understand them more in the second semester. I still don’t fully understand pronouns and I don’t remember much about adjectives because we flew over those sections and I couldn’t really comprehend it. I struggle with understanding how each pronoun or adjective is connected to the noun. I hope to have a better understanding of this in the second semester.


